#summary Instructions for entering a trip into the Troggle database
#labels HowTo

== Introduction ==

So you've just come down the hill from an exhausting week of top camp faffing. Time to immortalize your tales of great "finds". So let's put an entry in for stomping passage you found -- the 204 Hilde's beer cellar connection.

== The Troggle administrative interface  ==

First thing is to get behind the pretty Troggle facade and into the administrative interface. On the main menu, hover over 'admin' and then click 'Troggle administrative interface.' Login with your username and password which you got from HowToRegisterAnAccount.

== Adding a LogbookEntry ==

The LogbookEntry model is probably the most important in Troggle. It represents a trips of all types; cave surveying trips, cave rigging and derigging trips, surface prospecting trips, car rides to expo, and the crazy trip you had after eating a slice of Djuke's nut bread. QMs, Surveys, Photos, and PersonTrips are all attached to LogbookEntries.

To make a new one, click on "LogbookEntries" and then "Add a LogbookEntry." Fill in the Date, Expedition, Author (that's probably you!), and Title. If your trip was in a real cave, then choose it from the drop down list unless you just found a brand new cave in which case you can add it by clicking the little plus icon next to Cave and following the instructions in HowToEnterACave. If you were on a trip that wasn't in a Cave, briefly describe the location of the trip, for example "Journey" or "Loser Plateau".

When you fill out the text, you can use the Troggle WikiSyntax. Check it out. Troggle gives you some recommended links to include for items which are related to your entry. You may want to put this off until later, because a) you are a lazy bastard and b) you will be creating some objects in the rest of this HowTo which you might want to link to.

== Peopling your LogbookEntry ==

In Troggle, when a particular person goes on a particular trip, that event is called a PersonTrip. We store information such as the time underground, whether or not they were the author of the LogbookEntry, and the role that person had on the trip (FIXTHIS there is no role in persontrip).

To add some friends to your lonely trip, scroll down to "Person trips" and choose a Person expedition from the drop down list, and fill in their time underground. If you need more PersonTrip boxes, hit "Save and continue editing" at the bottom right of the page, and Troggle will give you space for more friends.

== If you create or tick off a QM ==

To add QMs to your trip, scroll down and fill in the fields. If you need more, use the "Save and continue editing button," as described above for entering Person trips.

The first set of QM input boxes is for the QMs that were found on this trip. There is a "ticked off by" box which should almost certainly be left blank. The way to "tick off" a QM in troggle is to add a trip in the QM's "ticked off by" field.

Currently, the easiest way to tick off a QM is to go back to the Troggle administration page, click on QM, and search for your QM using the search box at the top. Using this interface, you can tick off many QMs at once. Alternatively, navigate directly to the QM by going directly to its URL, which would be something like http://troggle.cavingexpedition.com/cave/204/1999-99C, and then click on "edit QM:1999-99C" in the upper right hand corner. Once you are there, choose your logbook entry from the "ticked off by" drop down box.

A way to do this from the edit page for the logbook entry which ticked off the QM itself is in the works.

== If you find a new cave ==

Click the little green plus sign next to the cave drop down box. In the new window that pops up, enter details of the new cave.

== If you took photos ==

Photos can be added in the same way you put your Person trips in. This time, you get to upload a file. Troggle will store that file wherever your settings has the photos directory.